<!--<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd"> -->
<!-- Uncomment the previous two lines to validate this document -->
<!-- standalone.  Be sure to recomment them before attempting to -->
<!-- process index.docbook -->

<appendix id="installation">
    <title>Installation</title>

    <sect1 id="getting-ktutorial">
        <title>How to obtain &ktutorial-editor;</title>

        <para>&ktutorial-editor; is part of KTutorial package, which is hosted at <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/">SourceForge.net</ulink>.</para>

        <para>KTutorial can be downloaded from the <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/projects/ktutorial/files/">files section</ulink> of the <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/projects/ktutorial/">KTutorial project in SourceForge.net</ulink>.</para>

        <para>You are encouraged to visit, however, the <ulink url="http://ktutorial.sourceforge.net/download.html">download section</ulink> of the <ulink url="http://ktutorial.sourceforge.net/">webpage</ulink>, as a lot more information can be found there apart of only the files.</para>

        <para>If you are brave enough, in the download section you will also find instructions to install KTutorial from <acronym>SVN</acronym>. However, this is only recommended for developers.</para>
    </sect1>

    <sect1 id="requirements">
        <title>Requirements</title>

        <para>In order to successfully build and use KTutorial, you need &kde; (at least version 4.3) and, therefore, &Qt; (at least version 4.6).</para>

        <para>To use the full feature set of &ktutorial-editor; you will also need the QtDBus module of Qt, only available in Unix systems. Without that module &ktutorial-editor; can not talk to the target application, for example to know the name of its objects.</para>

        <para>Also, <application>CMake</application> build system is required to build KTutorial, as required to build any other &kde; application.</para>
    </sect1>

    <sect1 id="compilation">
        <title>Compilation and Installation</title>

        <para>In order to compile KTutorial on your system, extract the KTutorial package you downloaded and type the following in the base directory of the extracted package:</para>

        <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>mkdir</command> build &amp;&amp; <command>cd</command> build</userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cmake</command> ..</userinput>
<prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput></screen>

        <para>That will create a <filename class="directory">build</filename> directory, change to it, prepare the build directory to build KTutorial on it and finally build KTutorial. If <command>cmake</command> complains, you have to install the required dependencies asked in the error message.</para>

        <para>To install KTutorial, become root user and run:</para>

        <screen><prompt>#</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command> install</userinput></screen>

        <tip>
            <title>Installing &ktutorial-editor; in <filename class="directory">/usr/local/</filename></title>

            <para>In order to keep a proper organization of your system and not mess up the packages installed by your distribution package manager and those installed manually by you, you are encouraged to install KTutorial in <filename class="directory">/usr/local/</filename>.</para>

            <para>This is the directory that should be used for manually installed packages. To do this, instead of executing <command>cmake</command> as stated before, execute this:</para>

            <screen><prompt>$</prompt> <userinput><command>cmake</command> <parameter class="command">-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<filename class="directory">/usr/local/</filename></parameter></userinput></screen>
        </tip>
    </sect1>

    <sect1 id="configuration">
        <title>Configuration</title>

        <para>Depending on your distribution and where KTutorial was installed (if you installed it from sourcecode), you may need a last step before being able to make KTutorial run properly.</para>

        <para>To check this, launch &ktutorial-editor; and take a look to the help. If &ktutorial-editor; manual cannot be found, go on reading to know what must be configured. If the manual is shown, congratulations, just enjoy! :)</para>

        <para>If the manual wasn't found, you must configure your &kde; prefixes. To do this, create the file <filename>/etc/kderc</filename> and add the following content:</para>

<programlisting>
[Directories]
prefixes=/the/prefix/where/ktutorial/was/installed/
</programlisting>

        <para>If <filename>/etc/kderc</filename> already existed and had a prefixes rule, add the prefix of KTutorial separating it from the previous prefixes with a "," like this:</para>

<programlisting>
[Directories]
prefixes=/previous/prefixes/,/the/prefix/where/ktutorial/was/installed/
</programlisting>
    </sect1>
</appendix>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: xml
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
End:

vim:tabstop=4:shiftwidth=4:expandtab
kate: space-indent on; indent-width 4; tab-width 4; indent-mode none;
-->

